# Kraken Writing Tool

## Pitch

  The Kraken Writing tool is  the ultimate planning and writing tool for story writers, world builders, programmers, and other people who plan and write in a dynamic, interconnected form. It solves is unorganization by creating an easier flow and representation of ideas while planning and writing. It will also create more creative ways for presenting information and ideas across multiple documents; such as a more organized way of presenting a wiki or detailed planning sheet. It will solve the problem by having a visual aspect where all documents are displayed in multiple different formats, such as: Flow chart, Tree (similar to a family tree), Mind map, or custom user-defined placement of objects. This will allow people that learn, remember and mentally visualize things better visually to excel in this writing environment. Each object can be either a label or document. On the visual level, labels and documents will act in fairly similar ways, they will both display a title and optional icon and/or subtitles. While the difference is, a label, when clicked on will only give options to change the text it possesses, while a document, will open up a word or docs like text editing window. The text editing window will allow the basic microsoft word or google docs functions, such as text styling (bold, italic, underline, strikethrough, colour, size, font, etc.) and formatting (aligning, bullet points, spacing, etc.). As well as custom dynamic functions such as file linking through special inter-file hyperlinks. These hyperlinks will act as bridges between documents and allow users to either jump between documents or view a document or portion of a document within another document for context or as a preview. The hyperlinks will reinforce the idea of an interconnected system of documents but also separate documents into ideas. Overall, this program will allow easy planning and creating of ideas, worlds, and stories with interconnectedness but also separate ideas.

## Technical Description

  The program will always be displaying one of two windows in a GUI. The first is the Visual Space. This Visual Space will be an open space where objects can be created and used at user defined coordinates, it is a completely open flexible space for the visual aspect of planning and/or creating. An object can be either created independent of the rest of the objects or can be created as a parent or child of another object. 
  
	These objects will either be External Documents or Labels. Labels will show a title and potentially a subtitle and/or description if the user wants. External Documents will do the same thing as labels but also allow the user to select the document and enter the other window to edit the document.
Each object will (in most cases) either be a parent or a child of another object and will usually be created in that role. Parent and child objects are connected via a connection line. This connection line will just act as a visual representation of the relationship between objects.

	The second window the user will see when using the program will be the text editing window. In this window the Internal Document will receive information from the External Document it is representing and allow the user to edit the Internals and Externals of that document. Inside this window a user will not only be able to create and delete text, but also format and display it in various different ways similar to Microsoft Word or Google Docs. There will be options for bolding, italicizing, underlining, strikingthrough, colouring text, different fonts, text sizes, text aligning, etc.
	
	All of the Text, External Documents, and Labels will be saved to files in a specific directory and be able to be retrieved at any time. Upon loading the program you will be prompted to create a new project or continue with an existing one, giving you the easy option of the last project you worked on or the ability to open a directory to find the folder for the project the user is looking for. Projects will be completely independent and isolated from each other.
